CECS 429/529 Programming Assignment 1, Fall 2010, Dr. Ebert


Write a program that reads in a text file and treats each paragraph as a document (each paragraph
is separated by at least one line consisting of only whitespace). Tokenize the file by defining a
token as a sequence of characters that is delimited by whitespace. Remove all beginning and ending
punctuation from the token. This includes exclamation marks, single and double quotes, periods,
semicolons, colons, commas, question marks. Other symbols, including hyphens and apostrophes,
may be kept.

The program interface should allow the user to type in a conjunctive query. It then returns to the
user the number of query matches, the text of the first document matched, and a menu that allows
the user to view other documents (or submit a new query). The query interface should support the
search for exact phrases (within double quotes).

The program must be efficient. It thus must use an inverted index for the purpose of query retrieval,
as well as a positional index for exact-phrase lookup. These indices may be combined into one, so
long as this does not affect the performance of a non-phrase query. A hash table should be used
to store tokens during the lexical analysis phase. Finally, assume that all documents fit into local
memory, and so each document should be placed in a document structure (that at least consists of
the docid and document text).

You may pair up with another student to work on this project. If you decide to do so, you must
implement the additional functionality of handling OR and not queries (using a minus sign before
the term that is to not appear. You may assume the queries are in disjunctive normal form without
parentheses. 

For example
orange mandarin -tangerine OR banana OR plum pluot

Requests all documents that either contains orange and mandarin (but not tangerine), or contains
banana, or contains plum and pluot. Both students are responsible for understanding all the code,
not just the code he or she wrote.

With the exception of data-structure libraries (for hash tables, lists, arrays, etc.), the program must
be written from scratch.
